an2k2iaf - Modifies minutiae and fingerprint image records in an ANSI/NIST 2007 file to meet FBI/IAFIS specifications.
an2k2txt - Converts an ANSI/NIST 2007 file to a formatted text file.
an2ktool - Parses, manipulates, and/or writes the results to an ANSI/NIST 2007 file in batch mode.
asc2bin - converts a PCASYS data file from ascii to binary form.
bin2asc - converts a PCASYS data file from binary to ascii form.
bozorth3 - Computes match scores between fingerprints
chgdesc - changes the description string of a PCASYS data file.
chkan2k - check the contents of an ANSI/NIST file.
cjp2k - Compress RAW image into JPEG2000 image format. This is based on the image_to_j2k application implemented in the OPENJPEG library. 
cjpeg - compress an image file to a JPEG file 
cjpegb - compresses a grayscale or color (RGB) image using lossy Baseline JPEG (JPEGB).
cjpegl - compresses a grayscale or color image using Lossless JPEG (JPEGL).
cmbmcs - combines PCASYS mean/covariance data file pairs.
cropcoeff - Read AN2K/AN2K7 file, and crop each Type-14 record.
cwsq - WSQ compresses grayscale fingerprint images.
datainfo - shows the header information of a PCASYS data file.
diffbyts - takes two binary data files and compares them byte for byte, compiling a cumulative histogram of differences.
djp2k - Decompress a JPEG2000 image into either pnm or raw image format. This is based on the j2k_to_image application implemented in the OPENJPEG library.
djpeg - decompress a JPEG file to an image file
djpegb - decompresses a Baseline JPEG (JPEGB) grayscale or color image.
djpegl - decompresses a Lossless JPEG (JPEGL) grayscale or color image.
djpeglsd - decompresses a grayscale image that was compressed using the old Lossless JPEG compression distributed with Special Databases 4, 9, 10, and 18. Cjpegl should be used in the future to Lossless JPEG (JPEGL) compress images.
dlwsqcom - ?
dpyan2k - display image and minutiae contents of an ANSI/NIST file.
dpyimage - displays the image contents of Baseline JPEG, Lossless JPEG, WSQ, IHead, and raw pixmap files.
dwsq - decompresses a WSQ-encoded grayscale fingerprint image.
dwsq14 - decompresses a WSQ14-encoded grayscale fingerprint image from NIST Special Database 14.
eva_evt - finds a desired number of eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
fing2pat - Takes a list of fingerprint images and creates a feature vector file that can be used in MLP training for the NFIQ algorithm.
fixwts - M-weighted robust weight filter from network activations.
histogen - Parses the text file of an ANSI/NIST 2007 file that is generated by an2k2txt and builds a histogram of Field Numbers.
iaf2an2k - Takes an ANSI/NIST file conforming to FBI/IAFIS specifications and modifies minutiae and fingerprint image records in support of the new 2007 standard.
intr2not - converts an image comprised of pixels with interleaved color components to an image with noninterleaved component planes.
jpegtran - lossless transformation of JPEG files
kltran - runs a Karhunen-Loeve transform on a set of vectors.
lintran - runs a linear transform on a set of vectors.
meancov - computes mean vector and covariance matrix for a set of feature vectors.
mindtct - detects minutiae from a fingerprint image that is either an ANSI/NIST 2007 formatted file or a WSQ compressed file.
mkoas - makes orientation arrays from fingerprint images.
mktran - makes transform matrix from regional weights and eigenvectors.
mlp - Does training and testing runs using a 3-layer feedforward linear perceptron Neural Network.
mlpfeats - converts PCASYS formatted feature files into the format compatible with the mlp command line function.
nfiq - evaluates a fingerprint image and returns a quality value for the image on a scale of 1 (highest quality) to 5 (lowest quality). When multiple fingerprint images are selected from an ANSI/NIST file, the record number and fgp number are printed before the quality value.
nfseg - Segments multiple finger plain impressions into individual fingers or removes white space from single finger rolled/plain impressions isolating just the fingerprint portion of the image.
not2intr - converts an image comprised of noninterleaved color component planes to an image with interleaved color component pixels.
oas2pics - makes pictures of orientation arrays.
optosf - optimizes the overall smoothing factor for the PNN classifier.
optrws - optimizes the regional weights for PNN classifier.
optrwsgw - ?
pcasys - fingerprint classifier demo, nongraphical version
pcasysx - fingerprint classifier demo, graphical version
rdimgwh - read image width and height directly from within the image data and print them on the standard output
rdjpgcom - display text comments from a JPEG file
rdwsqcom - scans a WSQ-encoded image file for any and all comment blocks, printing their contents to standard output.
rgb2ycc - converts a color RGB image to the YCbCr colorspace and downsamples component planes as specified.
rwpics - makes pictures of regional weights or gradients.
sd_rfmt - takes images from NIST Special Databases 4, 9, 10, 14, and 18 and reformats the compressed data to work with the decompressors djpegl and dwsq.
stackms - stacks PCASYS formatted matrix files together.
txt2an2k - Converts a formatted text file into an ANSI/NIST 2007 file.
wrjpgcom - insert text comments into a JPEG file
wrwsqcom - inserts a specified comment block into a WSQ-encoded image file.
ycc2rgb - converts a color YCbCr image to the RGB colorspace and accounts for downsampling of the YCbCr component planes.
znormdat - Takes a patterns file of (unnormalized) feature vectors and computes and writes the statistics (mean and stddev) to support ZNormalization.
znormpat - Takes a patterns file of (unnormalized) feature vectors and ZNormalizes its feature vectors based on global statistics provided.
